Week 1 - EC2 and DNS

Server Setup step (Amazon EC2, Ubuntu)
1. Launch a New EC2 Instance
Go to the AWS EC2 Dashboard and click "Launch Instance". Choose Ubuntu 20.04 LTS and make sure it's Free Tier Eligible.
2. Choose Instance Type
Select the default t2.micro instance type (free tier eligible), then click Next.
3. Configure Instance & Storage
Leave the instance settings as default.
On the Add Storage step, accept the default 8GB — that’s enough for basic use.
4. Skip Tags and Set Up Security Group
Skip the "Add Tags" section.
In Configure Security Group:
•	Name it: ssh-and-web
•	Keep the default SSH rule.
•	Click "Add Rule", choose HTTP, and leave source as Anywhere (0.0.0.0/0) to allow web traffic.
5. Review and Launch
Review your settings. AWS may warn that the server is open to the world — this is fine for a public website.
Click Launch.
6. Create Key Pair and Final Launch
When prompted, create a new key pair (e.g., webserver-key).
Download the .pem file and keep it safe — you’ll need it to access your server.
Click Launch Instance, then View Instance to monitor its status.
 
7.  Go onto your command line like terminal and enter: ssh -i "yourkeyname.pem" ubuntu@ec2-12-123-1-35.ap-southwest-5.compute.amazonaws.com
 
8.  You then Install Apache by entering this command: 
Sudo Apt update
Sudo apt install apache2
9. Test this by visiting your webserver by entering your IP into the web browser
Domaine Name and DNS (Route 53)
1.  On the AWS console search up Route 53
2.  On the left side go on domains section and click on registered domains
3.  Once you are in, click on register domains
4. Enter a domain name that suits your topic (use .click for the cheapest domain) and select the domain
 
5. Proceed to check out and fill in your information and once it is done wait 10-20 minutes to show up on the register domains section
6.  On the left section, select hosted zones, click on your new domains and click on view details, once your in click on create records.
7. Under record name use “www”, under value type in your website public ip address, make sure it a A type record, you can keep the rest on default and click. Create.
